1. Apigee

Apigee Edge is a platform for developing and managing API proxies. Think of a proxy as an abstraction layer that "fronts" for your backend service APIs and provides value-added features like security, rate limiting, quotas, analytics, and more. The primary consumers of Edge API proxies are app developers who want to use your backend services.

With Apigee, we can build API proxies—RESTful, HTTP-based APIs that interact with services. With easy-to-use APIs, developers can be more productive, increasing your speed to market.

API proxies give full power of Apigee's API platform to secure API calls, throttle traffic, mediate messages, control error handling, cache things, build developer portals, document APIs, analyze API traffic data, protect against bad bots, and more.

2. Akana

The Akana API Gateway solution streamlines management, deployment, development and operation of APIs, enhancing security and regulatory compliance through authentication, authorization and audit capabilities. It provides central definition and management of security, routing, orchestration, mediation, auditing, threat protection, and other operational governance policies across multiple instances. The Gateway enables enterprises to standardize API and service delivery with high security, performance and availability.

Key Features include:

1. Authentication and Authorization : Choose from a wide array of authentication schemes, standards and token types to ensure that only valid users and applications get access
2. Message Security : Ensure the privacy of data in flight and at rest (a key requirement for PCI Compliance)
3. Threat Protection : Prevent Denial of Service (DoS) attacks, malformed messages or excessive XML/JSON depth and breadth.
4. Orchestration, Mediation and Transformation : Bi-directional protocol transformation - Convert existing SOAP or Plain-old-XML (POX) over MQ or JMS services into RESTful APIs with XML and/or JSON content
5. Analytics and Monitoring : Real-time system monitoring – Use the Web-based dashboards to get real-time visibility into service and API performance, dependencies, and alert status
6. Unified API and SOA : Define and Manage API's- Create APIs with multiple interfaces using different standards including REST/XML, REST/JSON and SOAP with no extra development effort
7. Deploy in the cloud, or on-premises : On-Premise or in the Cloud – You can choose how and where you deploy to best meet the need of your business


3. IBM API Connect


IBM API Connect

API Connect is a cloud service from IBM that enables the creation and management of APIs, with built-in security and governance.

IBM® API Connect™ is for organizations looking to streamline and accelerate their journey into the API economy. It’s a comprehensive management solution that addresses all four aspects of the API lifecycle: create, run, manage and secure. API Connect is far more cost-effective than limited point solutions that focus on just a few lifecycle phases. It enables external and internal consumers to accelerate an organization’s API program and capture new revenue through compelling new customer experiences.

IBM API Connect features :

1. API creation : Automated, model-driven tools to create new APIs and microservices based on Node.js and Java runtimes—all managed from a single unified console.
2. Security and API management : Security, traffic management and mediation policies to ensure APIs and data are protected.  Simple management of APIs, versions, lifecycle, subscription plans and subscribers.
3. API socialization : Self-service developer portal to empower internal and external developers to discover, consume and access APIs.
4. API Testing and Monitoring : Automated and collaborative API testing and monitoring without any coding, easily integrated into your CI/CD pipeline.
5. Built-in analytics : API usage analytics for both API providers and consumers, with runtime and historical reporting on usage patterns and performance metrics.
6. Multi-Cloud Design : API Connect offers secure multi-cloud support to deploy components on Docker, AWS, Azure, IBM Cloud private and more.


4. 3 Scale

Red Hat® 3scale API Management makes it easy to manage your APIs. Share, secure, distribute, control, and monetize your APIs on an infrastructure platform built for performance, customer control, and future growth. Place 3scale components on-premise, in the cloud, or on any combination of the two.

Features & Benefits:

1. API traffic control : Use self-managed or cloud components that provide traffic control, security, and access policy enforcement.
2. API program management : Centralize control of your API program—including analytics, access control, monetization, developer workflows, and more.
3. OpenShift integration : Build and run high-performance applications in a contained and automated way.
4. Hybrid cloud support across all components : Design your API management the way you want it—in the cloud, on-premise, or any combination of the two.
5. Red Hat Fuse integration : Business users, integration experts, and application developers can take advantage of Red Hat Fuse to create APIs easily and quickly.
6. Comprehensive security : A wide range of encryption, authentication, and authorization protocols are supported.



5. WSO2 APIManager
WSO2 API Manager is an open source approach that addresses full API lifecycle management, monetization, and policy enforcement. It allows extensibility and customization, and ensures freedom from lock-in.

WSO2 API Manager is a unique open approach to full lifecycle API development, integration and management. As part of the larger WSO2 Integration Agile Platform, it is a central component used to deploy and manage API-driven ecosystems. It’s hybrid integration capabilities further simplify projects that span traditional as well as microservice environments. And unlike other API and lifecycle management products, it is fully open-source allowing for extensibility and customization.

Key Features:
1. API Gateway and Microgateway :Secure, low-latency access to microservices via WSO2 API Microgateway eliminates the need for a central gateway by enabling enterprises to apply API management policies in a decentralized fashion.
2. Hybrid API Management : Hybrid SaaS API management solutions enable you to get the best of both worlds, by delivering the benefits of on-premise, with minimal infrastructure overhead of cloud.
3. Integration with Istio : Integrates out-of-the-box with Istio to allow APIs from the service mesh to be securely exposed and managed
4. API Security : Authenticate and authorize API requests from any client or device type making requests to resource servers operating on traditional and microservice architectures.
5. API Store (Developer Portal) : An API marketplace incorporates business and human aspects that encourage API developers by providing tools, documentation, incentives such as monetization and supporting activities like evangelism, workshops, and hackathons.
6. Collaborative API and Application Lifecycle Management : Enables the design, implementation and documentation of APIs with business planning. Facilitates the management of the API Lifecycle across environments, data centers, and regions.
7. Business Insights and Anomaly Detection : Monitors system behavior, as well as API and application usage at operations and business levels.


6. Mashery

TIBCO Cloud™ Mashery® API Management Platform
The cloud-native API platform you can deploy anywhere, and manage APIs from everywhere

TIBCO Cloud™ Mashery® delivers market-leading full lifecycle API management capabilities for enterprises adopting cloud-native development and deployment practices, such as DevOps, Microservices, and Containers. Its rich set of capabilities includes API creation, productization, security, and analytics of your API program and community of developers.

Key Features & Benefits:

1.CREATE your APIs from any data source : Model any data source and utilize contract-first modeling, with native OpenAPI Spec, plus native Node.js hosting of API implementations. Architect your cloud-native apps with API choreography, event-driven APIs, and other non-REST protocols for API creation.

2. PRODUCTIZE private, partner, and public APIs : Define API products and take them to market through defined packaging, cataloguing, and discoverable API products, including API-led microservices within Kubernetes. Engage and manage your community of API consumers, using developer API portals.

3. SECURE your APIs through robust authentication : Mashery® provides a wide range of policies for fine-grained control over how, when, and from where your user community can access your APIs. Define access & security policies like rate limiting and throttling between different consumers and utilize a single system management of traffic for your API gateway and embedded microgateways.

4. ANALYZE performance of your program in real-time: Monitor and visualize custom operational and usage-based KPIs at the executive summary level, or utilize deeper, endpoint-level drilldown. Visualize API Analytics within Mashery® or export batch or streaming data for advanced analytics using tools like TIBCO® Spotfire.

5. Deploy Anywhere : The solution can be deployed on any public cloud, private cloud, or containerized on-premise, while also being compatible with any PaaS.

6. Manage APIs from Everywhere : Manage APIs through a single pane of glass regardless of whether your API-led services are running in the cloud, on-premise, or at the edge.

7. Cloud-native Design : Develop and deploy your API-led microservices faster, with an API platform designed for your cloud-native tooling and DevOps processes.

8. Enterprise Scale & Security : Develop and deliver your API program at unlimited scale while leveraging best-in-class API security capabilities and standards certifications.

9. Business of APIs® : Drive API-led digital innovation internally, grow B2B partnerships, create new business models, and expand your distribution channels.

10. Agility for Digital Business : Leverage an API-led strategy to connect your enterprise with a catalog of iterative, reusable services that enables the agility to innovate at the pace of digital.


7. Apiary


Powerful API Design Stack. Built for Developers.
Work together to quickly design, prototype, document and test APIs

Key Features:

1. Dashboard : Dedicated, web-based team and API Blueprint management dashboard

2. Access Control : Role-based access control over API documents

3. Roles : Admin, Editor, and Viewer roles

4. Provisioning : Add and remove team members from API design projects

5. Template : Shared API Blueprint templates to bootstrap new projects

6. Customization : Default settings for API Blueprint visibility and new team member provisioning
