Container Scheduling & Orchestration
1. Rancher Labs
Rancher is a complete software stack for teams adopting containers.
It addresses the operational and security challenges of managing multiple Kubernetes clusters across any infrastructure,
while providing DevOps teams with integrated tools for running containerized workloads.

Rancher deploys and manages Kubernetes clusters on any provider, anywhere in the world.
It includes all of the tools for running Kubernetes in the enterprise,
including all of the resources for both operations and development teams.
Businesses who use Rancher see a marked improvement in Kubernetes reliability and adoption over alternative solutions.

How Is Rancher Different?
Rancher is a complete solution for deploying and managing Kubernetes.
Better than an installer or a platform, it fits perfectly with every part of container orchestration strategy.

2. Docker

Independent container platform that enables organizations to seamlessly build,
share and run any application, anywhere—from hybrid cloud to the edge.

The Docker Engine is the underlying client-server tool that supports container technology to handle the tasks and workflows involved
in building container-based applications.
The engine creates a server-side daemon process that hosts images, containers, networks and storage volumes.
The daemon also provides a client-side command-line interface (CLI) that allows users to interact with the daemon through
the Docker application programming interface. Containers created by Docker are called Dockerfiles.

Docker Compose files define the composition of components in a Docker container.

Docker Hub is a software-as-a-service tool that enables users to publish and share container-based applications through a common library.
The service touts more than 100,000 publically available applications, as well as public and private container registries.

Docker swarm mode in Docker Engine supports cluster load balancing for Docker.
With Docker swarm mode, multiple Docker host resources are pooled together to act as one, which enables users to quickly scale up container
deployments to multiple hosts.

What makes Docker containers so popular and more attractive in some cases than virtual machines? 
The answer is density. Here’s what it means and why it matters.
In the context of computing, density refers to the number of objects that a single physical server can run at one time.
If a server can host lots of apps at once by making full use of its resources, it supports a dense deployment environment.
In contrast, if the server only runs a handful of apps and its total capacity is underutilized, then it’s a sparse environment.

3. Pivotal

Enterprise Pivotal Container Service (PKS)

Key Features

1. Production Ready : Enterprise PKS is highly available up and down the stack, from apps to infrastructure. The service also includes dynamic load balancing, zero downtime updates, automated health checks, and much more.
2. Multicloud : Enterprise PKS gives IT teams the flexibility to deploy and consume Kubernetes on-premises with vSphere, or in the public cloud. And because Enterprise PKS is powered by BOSH, you get a reliable and consistent operational experience on any cloud.
3. Network Management and Security Out-of-the-Box : Enterprise PKS includes NSX-T to programmatically manage software-defined virtual networks, and to keep your K8s network secure.
4. On-Demand Provisioning : Deploy K8s clusters on-demand through the command line (CLI) and API using BOSH, a powerful release engineering toolchain. K8s clusters deployed by Enterprise PKS are also constantly watched and kept healthy by BOSH.
5. Easy Integration with VMware Tools : Integrate Enterprise PKS with VMware tools like vRealize Operations Manager, vRealize Log Insights, and Wavefront for a full-featured on-prem deployment.
6. Includes Harbor, a Registry for docker Images : Enterprise PKS comes with Harbor, an enterprise-class container registry server. Harbor provides vulnerability scanning and identity management for Docker images, and supports multiple registries.
7. Expose & Consume Services from Your Containers : Enhance your containers with a growing library of add-on services. Easily add APM tools, database services, and much more with the Open Service Broker API and Kubernetes Service Catalog.
8. Constant Compatibility with GKE : Apps are cross-compatible between Enterprise PKS and Google Container Engine (GKE). That means you’re always running the latest stable Kubernetes version and can easily move workloads to (and from) GKE.
9. Built on Open Source : Enterprise PKS is built atop Cloud Foundry’s Container Runtime (the project formerly known as Kubo).

4. Platform9
