1. Sysdig:
Sysdig is unified cloud-native visibility + security platform.

Cloud-Native Visibility + Security: A data-first approach to delivering reliable, secure containerized applications. The richest data sources mean you can solve problems more intelligently, without managing separate container security and monitoring tools.
Container security: Sysdig Secure is our container security app running on top of the cloud-native visibility and security platform. Bring together container image scanning, compliance, run-time protection, and forensics to identify vulnerabilities, block threats, meet regulatory requirements, and audit activity across your microservices.
Automatic orchestrator integration: We use Sysdig ServiceVision to dynamically map services using metadata from Kubernetes, OpenShift, AWS, Azure, Google, Mesos, or Docker EE, and more. With this insight, you can isolate and solve problems faster.

Key Features:
1. Powerful Observability: Deep system observability at the kernel system call level. Easily observe the state of the entire system, or drill down into the behavior of individual applications or containers.
2. Container First: Container observability built for containers. Each project is built from the ground up to natively support a variety of container runtimes. No plugins or special integrations required.
3. Platform Support: Container observability requires context. Overlay data from your Cloud Native platforms such as Kubernetes to understand the behavior of your microservices.

2. Datadog
Datadog is a monitoring service for cloud-scale applications, providing monitoring of servers, databases, tools, and services, through a SaaS-based data analytics platform. 

With turn-key integrations, Datadog seamlessly aggregates metrics and events across the full devops stack.

    SaaS and Cloud providers
    Automation tools
    Monitoring and instrumentation
    Source control and bug tracking
    Databases and common server components
    All listed integrations are supported by Datadog

Features:

The features that Datadog offers include:

    1. Provides an IT/DevOps team with a single view of their infrastructure (including servers, apps, metrics and other services).
    2. Customizable dashboards.
    3. Alerts based on critical issues.
    4. Support for over 250 product integrations.
    5. Can automatically collect and analyze logs, latency and error rates.
    6. Allows for access to the API.
    7. Supports applications written in languages such as Java, Python, PHP, .NET, Go, Node and Ruby.


3. SignalFX
SignalFx is a SaaS-based monitoring and analytics platform which allows customers to analyze, visualize, automate, and alert on metrics data from infrastructure, applications, microservices, containers, and functions.
At the core of the platform is a streaming architecture that splits metric data points into two streams, one for human readable metadata and the other for time-series values. The data is routed through a pub-sub bus to SignalFlow, a python-like analytics language accessible through the main SignalFx GUI and through programmable API's.
The platform is able to process millions of data points per second at 1-second resolution with less than 2 seconds of latency, from ingestion to alert. 

1. Analytics: Combine 1000s of time series with aggregation functions
2. Alerts: Establish which data to evaluate against alert rules, with no reconfiguration as service membership changes
3. Integrations: Collect CloudWatch metrics and sync AWS EC2 metadata with turnkey integrations
4. Dashboards & Charts: Compose custom charts using an easy-to-use chart builder
5. Graphite Migration: Forward Graphite metrics non-disruptively into SignalFx with StatsD/carbon-compatible metricsproxy
6. Operations & Administration: Comprehensive API coverage

