1. Mulesoft

MuleSoft is a vendor that provides an integration platform to help businesses connect data, applications and devices across on-premises and cloud computing environments.

The company's platform, called Anypoint Platform, includes various tools to develop, manage and test application programming interfaces (APIs), which support these connections.

1. Collaborate : Accelerate development speed by reusing prebuilt APIs, connectors, templates, examples, and other integration assets. Collaborate more effectively with teams by rating and commenting on any asset to improve quality, and build a customized, branded API portal to increase API engagement and adoption
2. Connect : Build APIs and integrations faster using reusable assets with clicks or code — whether it is through a web interface or a desktop IDE. Transform data automatically using machine learning-based recommendations, test your APIs and integrations, and plug into your CI/CD pipeline with built-in support for Maven and Jenkins.
3. Secure : Get out-of-the-box compliance for ISO 27001, SOC 2, PCI DSS, and GDPR, and secure your enterprise automatically with prebuilt and custom policies. Protect sensitive data through format-preserving tokenization using policies, and establish secure perimeters around data, APIs, microservices, and integrations. 
4. Run : Use Mule, a lightweight, scalable runtime engine for APIs, integrations, and microservices. Deploy anywhere — on-premises, to the cloud, or both. Ensure 99.99% uptime with CloudHub, which handles over 60 billion transactions per month. Reap the benefits of Kubernetes and Docker to deploy to AWS, Azure, or on-premises using Anypoint Runtime Fabric.
5. Manage : Understand the health of your application network with a real-time, graphical view of your APIs and integrations. Customize dashboards, API functional tests, and alerts to monitor business-critical initiatives. Decrease mean time to resolution with application performance management, logging, and business operations metrics in one view. 

2. Dell Boomi

Dell Boomi AtomSphere is an on-demand multi-tenant cloud integration platform for connecting cloud and on-premises applications and data. The platform enables customers to design cloud-based integration processes called Atoms and transfer data between cloud and on-premises applications. Each Atom defines what is necessary for the integration.


1. Integrate any application and data across your hybrid IT landscape with speed and ease : Overcome IT complexity and break down data silos by integrating on-premise and cloud application, various data sources and devices with Boomi Integration. Create a fabric of connectivity to unlock productivity and thrive in the digital era.

2. Synchronize and enrich trusted data across your enterprise : Boomi Master Data Hub is a cloud-native master data management solution that sits at the center of the various data silos within your business, including your existing MDM solution, to provide you an easy to implement, scalable, flexible, and secure master data management hub as a service.

3. Simplify how you manage your B2B trading partner network : Effectively integrate with your B2B partner network – vendors, suppliers, distributors – using both traditional EDI and newer web service protocols with Boomi B2B Management.

4. Design, secure and scale APIs to connect across the enterprise using the full lifecycle Boomi API management : Boomi API Management supports the full lifecycle of APIs in a hybrid environment. Configure APIs and expose real-time integrations effortlessly. Centrally test and deploy APIs and enforce contracts and policies with an API gateway. Monitor the health of APIs with usage dashboards and engage API developers using the catalog and developer portal.

5. Workflow automation and app development enable you to build customer journeys with low-code development : Boomi Flow is a modern, cloud-native, low-code application development platform for creating customer journeys and automating simple and sophisticated workflows that accelerate your business outcomes.

Through the Boomi unified platform’s extensive connectivity, customers can extend application and data integration capabilities to any business applications including online/offline mobile apps and web portals.

6. Continuous innovation : Boomi has been pioneering cloud-native integration. Auto-healing, auto-updating and smart, our platform is built on the industry’s most advanced distributed architecture.

7. Productivity and control : Boomi provides revolutionary development speed with its low-code environment, powered by crowd-sourced intelligence, pre-built templates, and developer SDKs Boomi.

8. Trust and compliance : With the industry’s best uptime, Boomi handles all your toughest technical challenges — including upgrades, security and compliance — regardless of whether you’re deployed on-premise, in the cloud, or across a hybrid IT landscape.

9. Insights and intelligence : With your applications and data together in a unified platform, you gain a 360-degree view of your business to identify patterns and unlock the power of artificial intelligence and machine learning.




3. SnapLogic

SnapLogic is a software company that offers cloud integration products to allow customers to connect cloud-based data and applications with on-premise and cloud-based business systems. The products are designed to allow even business users with limited technology skills to access and integrate data from different sources.

Key Features:

1. Customer Experience/CRM : Pre-built connectivity with Salesforce, Oracle, Zendesk, ServiceNow, and others helps you accelerate your department and company initiatives. Obtain 360-degree understanding across all teams.

2.  Cloud Data Warehousing : Our high volume, intuitive platform enables rapid on-premises and cloud database and app integration from and to Oracle, SQL Server, Redshift, Azure databases, Snowflake, and more.

3. Finance & Accounting : SnapLogic Integrates SAP, Oracle, NetSuite, Microsoft Dynamics, and other ERPs with apps and data across the enterprise to automate order-to-cash, procure-to-pay, and financial close and reporting processes.

4. Human Capital Management : Speeds tasks and cuts cost from your HR migrations and helps centralize and consolidate data for people analytics. Integrate Workday, Oracle Peoplesoft, Taleo, and multiple other HR applications.

5. Mergers & Acquisitions : SnapLogic provides consolidated data and processes across disparate multi-subsidiary sales, customer, and finance applications. Reduce the number of fragmented platforms and IT resources.

6. Internet of Things (IoT) : The SnapLogic integration platform supports a variety of IoT standard protocols and data sources including streaming and data for real-time decision making – critical to your IoT initiative’s success.

7. Data Analytics : The complexity of integrating data into the enterprise can be challenging. Integrate data well and reduce risk, optimize operations, and support insight-driven decision making

8.  Big Data : SnapLogic’s platform-agnostic approach supports a distributed, web-oriented architecture for large datasets on-premises, in the cloud, or both – giving maximum visibility to Spark, Hadoop, ETL, etc.


4. Tibco

TIBCO Cloud™ Integration is the integration platform as a service (iPaaS) for users of all skill sets—business users, integration specialists, or developers who need maximum speed and flexibility. Accessible as a secure, multi-tenant, and cloud-based service, TIBCO Cloud Integration allows you to rapidly connect your critical cloud and on-premises business applications and data sources.

1. Establish an Agile Information Landscape : With TIBCO, not only are you able to manage your integration applications as APIs, you can use an API-led approach to integration. Your API product managers can create, publish, secure, and analyze your API products, creating a seamless, connective tissue across your digital business that is based on easy to connect, standard interfaces.

2. Connect Business Applications Quickly : Make it easy for your business analysts and application owners to connect a wide variety of SaaS applications, databases, and business applications including CRM, ERP, and marketing automation systems. Enable them to quickly wire applications and data together using business logic defined through a web browser-based, drag-and-drop interface.

3. Integrate Mission-critical Applications : Give your integrators the tools they need to create highly customizable and scalable integrations that meet your unique enterprise requirements. Enable them to deploy enterprise integration patterns based on APIs that are implemented visually within an environment that embeds DevOps capabilities.

4. Develop Integrations for Digital Moments : Your application developers can use embedded open source Project Flogo® software to capture important digital events in real time—such as from IoT devices and customer engagement events created with APIs—and trigger flows that process these events in real time.

5. Accelerate Your Integrations: Empower a broad set of users with tailored experiences that enable them to integrate applications and data themselves. Arm them with pre-built connectors that speed connectivity to a wide variety of endpoints and technologies.

6. Deploy & Access Anywhere : Connect to your information assets no matter where you host them, with the flexibility to deploy integration apps on-premises, within containers, or to public clouds, serverless environments, and edge devices.

7. Deliver Insights & Opportunities : Tap into the transformative power of APIs to build a foundation that helps your business operate and adapt faster, automate decision-making, and use data to inspire innovation by quickly combining technology services using standard interfaces.



5. Informatica
6. Jboss Fuse
