. SnapLogic

SnapLogic is a software company that offers cloud integration products to allow customers to connect cloud-based data and applications with on-premise and cloud-based business systems. The products are designed to allow even business users with limited technology skills to access and integrate data from different sources.

Key Features:

1. Customer Experience/CRM : Pre-built connectivity with Salesforce, Oracle, Zendesk, ServiceNow, and others helps you accelerate your department and company initiatives. Obtain 360-degree understanding across all teams.
2. Cloud Data Warehousing : Our high volume, intuitive platform enables rapid on-premises and cloud database and app integration from and to Oracle, SQL Server, Redshift, Azure databases, Snowflake, and more.
3. Finance & Accounting : SnapLogic Integrates SAP, Oracle, NetSuite, Microsoft Dynamics, and other ERPs with apps and data across the enterprise to automate order-to-cash, procure-to-pay, and financial close and reporting processes.
4. Human Capital Management : Speeds tasks and cuts cost from your HR migrations and helps centralize and consolidate data for people analytics. Integrate Workday, Oracle Peoplesoft, Taleo, and multiple other HR applications.
5. Mergers & Acquisitions : SnapLogic provides consolidated data and processes across disparate multi-subsidiary sales, customer, and finance applications. Reduce the number of fragmented platforms and IT resources.
6. Internet of Things (IoT) : The SnapLogic integration platform supports a variety of IoT standard protocols and data sources including streaming and data for real-time decision making – critical to your IoT initiative’s success.
7. Data Analytics : The complexity of integrating data into the enterprise can be challenging. Integrate data well and reduce risk, optimize operations, and support insight-driven decision making
8. Big Data : SnapLogic’s platform-agnostic approach supports a distributed, web-oriented architecture for large datasets on-premises, in the cloud, or both – giving maximum visibility to Spark, Hadoop, ETL, etc.


Use Cases:
1). API Management
SnapLogic API Management (APIM) provides a seamless, end-to-end solution for achieving lifecycle API management.
It enables you to build a rich digital ecosystem and accelerate connectivity across channels and partners. 
What’s more, SnapLogic APIM spurs innovation and growth in the form of new API-led products and services.
With lifecycle API management, you can manage, scale, and control API consumption quickly, seamlessly, and securely.
The following features make this possible: API traffic control and productization, developer portal, advanced API analytics,
and threat detection.


Create APIs without a single line of code
The Intelligent Integration Platform (IIP), SnapLogic’s core integration platform, makes it easy to create APIs by converting 
complex integration pipelines into REST APIs. These APIs can shape, combine, and transform data as well as connect a variety of 
endpoints – databases, ERP systems, legacy web services, cloud applications, data warehouses, data lakes, IoT, etc. – with 
virtually no coding. They can even enrich third-party data. By not having to update API calls with manual code, 
you can achieve a remarkably fast time-to-value.


OpenAPI for any API management platform
SnapLogic adapts to your API needs and integrates with any API management platform you might want to use. 
It does this by using OpenAPI specifications created from SnapLogic projects. You can use these specifications to 
easily generate a single downloadable “Swagger” file, in JSON or YAML format, in the SnapLogic IIP. 
The REST APIs from all related tasks for the project are imported via this file into any API management platform of your choosing. 
This includes Apigee, Microsoft Azure, 3Scale, CA Technologies’ Layer 7, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Kong, Axway, and more.

Connect and consume APIs in real-time
Speed up your integration initiatives by leveraging a growing library of 500+ pre-built connectors. 
These pre-built connectors, known as Snaps, integrate with popular applications, databases, analytics solutions,
data warehouses, and other systems. They enable you to execute multi-point integrations and connect your on-premises
applications to your cloud applications without having to write a single line of code. 
In other words, with Snaps, you don’t have to build APIs from scratch. This enables you to build a revenue-driving 
digital ecosystem faster


A comprehensive and flexible integration platform
SnapLogic offers pre-built pipeline patterns and the Iris AI-powered Integration Assistant to further speed up the 
process of building a digital ecosystem. The Integration Assistant, a machine learning-powered recommendation engine, 
offers contextual Snap suggestions when building integrations, thus saving you time. 
With pre-built pipeline patterns, you can build reusable API integrations at drag-and-drop speed. 
SnapLogic enables you to rapidly create APIs, make seamless connections, and easily manage the API lifecycle.


2). SnapLogic for B2B Integration

SnapLogic modernizes your B2B integrations so you no longer have to endure the pain of antiquated, disjointed systems. 
The SnapLogic Intelligent Integration Platform (IIP) integrates with a cloud-based B2B gateway solution to offer
effective partner management, out-of-the-box EDI(Electronic Data Interchange) document support, and EDI translation. 
These pre-built integrations with a B2B gateway enable you to both create EDI documents that get pushed to trading partners 
and ingest EDI documents sent by trading partners.

3). Big Data Integration

Enable a completely managed data architecture in the cloud including integrations (iPaaS), processing (BDaaS) and data storage (SaaS).
Realize the benefits of no CapEx, lower your OpEx, and reduce the need for hard-to-find skills to manage big data clusters. 
SnapLogic eXtreme is built to process very high volumes (peta/exabyte) with high complexity. 
It also has built-in support for ephemeral, managed big data clusters.




