Zerto
Zerto provides disaster recovery software for virtualized and cloud infrastructures.

Solutions & Features:
1. Continuous Data Protection (CDP) - Replicate data as block changes occur, recover to any point in time, and archive with virtually no data loss.
2. Prevent Outages and Disruptions - Handle Every IT Disruption—Both Planned and Unplanned
3. Protect Your Business And Your Brand From Ransomware - Pinpoint Attacks with Zerto Analytics, Use network reports within Zerto Analytics to find unusual behavior in generated changes and pinpoint the timeframe of malware attacks.
4. Zerto Eliminate Storage Vendor Lock-In - Zerto launched hypervisor-based replication which is completely storage agnostic and can replicate from any storage brand or technology to any other.

Zerto works regardless of your underlying infrastructure, meaning you can mix and match storage, clouds, and hypervisors.
Cloud “Translation” on the Fly : Zerto’s agnostic approach doesn’t stop at hypervisors, it also extends into the cloud. Move or recover any workload, to or from any cloud platform, without any manual conversion process required.

A. Data Center Consolidation and Mergers - Whether you’re moving specific applications or entire datacenters, Zerto’s IT Resilience Platform™ solves the challenges associated with workload mobility. A combination of continuous data protection, non-disruptive testing, and support for heterogeneous environments makes the Zerto IT Resilience Platform the best solution for data migration.
B. Modernizing Infrastructure - Zerto helps you move workloads and data as you upgrade, refresh, consolidate, or integrate new data center infrastructure—even if you have complex and disparate technologies. 
C. Complete Application Mobility - Zerto’s virtual replication solves migration challenges—and more. Whether you’re moving specific applications or entire datacenters, a combination of continuous data protection, non-disruptive testing, and support for heterogeneous environments delivers seamless data center migrations.

Clouds Zerto Works with(supports)
Use Zerto to Replicate to Microsoft Azure
Automate and Orchestrate IT Resilience with Zerto & IBM Cloud
Simplify Mobility and Protection to or from AWS Sites with Zerto


Carbonite Migrate
Migrate workloads to and from any environment – physical, cloud & virtual

Key Features
1. Migrates data and systems to, from or between any combination of physical, virtual, and cloud-based platforms
2. Easy-to-use console automates and orchestrates migration configuration and management
3. Scalable continuous replication with minimal performance or bandwidth impact
4. Offers freedom from lock-in to any specific hypervisor, cloud vendor or hardware
5. AES 256-bit encryption
6. Comprehensive SDK for integration, automation and orchestration

Supported platforms:
Any cloud platform, including:

1. Microsoft Azure
2. Amazon Web Services (AWS)
3. VMware vCloud Director
4. Google Cloud


Turbonomic Workload Automation for Hybrid Cloud
Workload Automation that enables your cloud & on-premises to self-manage in real-time. Assure Performance. Lower Costs. Ensure Compliance.

Key Features:

    1. Assure Application Performance
    2. Digital Transformation
    3. Accelerate and De-Risk Cloud Migrations
    4. Optimize Public Cloud Spend
    5. Accelerate Consolidation and Refresh Projects
    6. Optimize Container Platforms
    7. Unleash DevOps Agility


RightScale:
SaaS provider that offers cloud management and analytics tools for public, private and hybrid clouds.

RightScale's software helps organizations deploy, configure and manage applications across different cloud service provider platforms.

RightScale's main products include:

1. RightScale Self-Service: a portal that gives developers on-demand access to public cloud and private cloud infrastructures, including those from Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud Platform.
2. RightScale Cloud Management: a tool that helps organizations design, deploy and maintain control over their cloud environments.
3. RightScale Cloud Analytics: a dashboard and reporting tool that helps organizations monitor, forecast and optimize costs across public and private clouds.
4. RightScale Multi-Cloud Platform: a platform that provides a single multi-cloud management interface and application programming interface (API) for private and public IaaS environments, including AWS, Azure and Google. It also supports multiple hypervisors, including KVM, Xen and vSphere, and operating systems, such as CentOS, RHEL, SUSE, Ubuntu and Windows.





Galactic Fog

Galactic Fog offers its Gestalt platform that provides a control plane to help organizations adopt, build, deploy,
and manage cross-cloud, enterprise function-as-a-service (FaaS), cloud-as-a-service (CaaS), and future cloud technologies.
It ties into the AWS Lambda ecosystem and runs on top of CaaS platforms like Kubernetes and Mesos DC/OS.


Spotinst

Spotinst offers its fully managed Functions platform that allows for the running of code regardless of cloud environment.
The platform offers a cloud- and vendor-agnostic alternative to offerings like Lambda, Google Cloud Functions, and Azure Functions.
Its Functions Document Store that allows developers to store new data with a single API call. This provides quicker access to that 
data for spinning up new applications.



Densify:
Cloud & Container Resource Management
Densify continuously analyzes your cloud and container workloads and automates 
the resource selection process—improving application performance and stability, 
reducing risk, and enabling prudent cloud spend.

1. Densify’s cloud optimization engine:
Cloe—the Cloud-Learning Optimization Engine—enables your applications to become self-aware of their 
resource requirements and to dynamically match their needs to optimal cloud supply.
2. Cloud Optimization as Code
3. Optimization for Amazon Web Services
4. Microsoft Azure Optimization
5. Optimizing Your Google Cloud
6. Optimization for Container Platforms
7. Automated Optimization for Virtual & Bare Metal Cloud Infrastructure



CloudCheckr
CloudCheckr is a vendor that provides a cloud management platform. The platform, which supports public cloud deployments in Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud Platform,
public cloud customers more visibility and control over cloud computing costs, performance and security.

CloudCheckr major features and tools
1. Cost management: The platform enables an enterprise to track its total spend across various cloud computing resources, such as virtual machine instances, and providers.
2. Security and compliance: CloudCheckr software proactively monitors users' activity on public cloud platforms, and enables administrators to implement Identity and Access Management (IAM) to control user access.
3. Resource inventory and utilization: The platform centralizes data about an organization's cloud deployment, and provides dashboards, summaries and other types of reports to help an administrator track resource usage. 



Cloudability
Provides financial management tools for monitoring and analyzing cloud computing costs.

Features of the Cloudability cost management platform include:
1. Customizable dashboard  provides a graphical view of an enterprise's key performance indicators (KPIs).
2. Alerts:  let users know if they have almost exceeded their budget for a particular cloud service account.
3. Daily email reports inform users of daily cloud service usage and costs trends across their business.
4. Allocation and chargeback  allows users to track cloud usage and costs by specific business users, departments or teams.

The Cloudability platform is designed to work with:
1. Amazon Web Services (AWS) public cloud and 
2. Microsoft Azure. 



Teevity:
Cloud usage analytics made simple.
Get a deep understanding of how you spend on the AWS, GCP and Azure
Features:
1. Costs monitoring
2. Costs management
3. Costs optimization
4. Costs estimations



Parkmycloud
ParkMyCloud is a SaaS platform that automatically identifies and eliminates public cloud resource waste and optimize and govern cloud usage by integrating cost control into their DevOps processes.

KEY FEATURES:
1. Custom Scheduling: Choose and create on/off schedules based on your needs.
2. Utilization-Based Parking: Drive automated scheduling and resizing actions based on resource utilization history and/or resource names and tags.
3. Rightsizing: Automatic or on-demand resizing of your resources based on utilization metrics to match your infrastructure needs.
4. Schedule Override: Temporarily override parking schedules if extended uptime is needed.
5. Operational Dashboard: Manage cloud resources across multiple credentials, accounts, regions and providers in a single view.
6. Policy Engine: Use policies to apply parking schedules and assign resources to user-limited teams.
7. Users & Teams: Govern user access and define permissions with role-based access controls.
8. Single Sign-On: Add users and create permissions using SSO with SAML 2.0, with support for Azure AD, Azure ADFS, Google Apps, Centrify, Okta, and more.
9. Reporting: View, download, and email savings reports, organized by teams and credentials.
10. Public REST API: Any action you can take through the UI can also be taken through a documented API.
11. ChatOps: Control your resources and override schedules with Slack and Microsoft Teams bots.
12. Notifications: Get configurable notifications of ParkMyCloud updates & activities via email, webhook or ChatOps.

Cloud service providers supported by Parkmycloud are:
ParkMyCloud supports Amazon Web Services (AWS) including AWS GovCloud (US), Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform (GCP),
and Alibaba Cloud. 
