https://cloud.google.com/velostrata/

Velostrata is a purpose-built, enterprise-grade cloud migration solution that lets you mass migrate enterprise workloads 
to Google Cloud Platform (GCP) from on- prem or other clouds quickly while controlling and automating where storage resides.

Key Features:

1). Automatic and seamless adaptations
Automatic and seamless adaptations for cloud, including driver/agent installations, networking, licensing, and more. 
No manual changes to the applications, images, networks, storage, or drivers are required when migrating most operating systems 
and versions.

2). Provisioning and rightsizing
Provision cloud instances directly from Velostrata, including support for customizations to networking, encrypted disks, and more,
as well as analytics-based rightsizing recommendations for both cost and performance.

3).On-premises stateful rollback
Stateful rollback so no trip to the cloud is one-way if applications don’t operate as planned.

4). Customizable
Customization hooks allow IT managers to perform specific customizations (e.g., enable or disable services) upon
migration to cloud or roll back to on-premises.

5). Pre-migration validation and testing
Pre-migration validation via Velostrata’s test-clone capability, which allows testing of production workloads and data directly 
in the cloud, within an isolated environment that has zero impact on production or live systems.

6). Automated migration waves
Automatically generate self-documenting, auditable migration waves from vCenter or other clouds.
This helps provide an ordered migration plan that includes configuration details and enables scalable automated batch migration.

7). Programmable migrations
Programmable operations with REST API or PowerShell enable automation of the migration flow using the orchestration/automation tools
of your choice.

8). Boot over WAN
Velostrata performs a native boot from the source operating system over the WAN in just a few minutes — regardless of the data size.
While the system boots, Velostrata adapts it on the fly to meet the target environment.
No manual changes to the application, image, storage, drivers, or networking are required.

9). Intelligent streaming
Prioritizes necessary data for an application to run and moves that data into the cloud first. 
Applications begin running in cloud within minutes, while less-frequently accessed data can be streamed in the background 
while the application runs in cloud.

10). Multi-tier caching and optimization
A multi-tier read-write cache in the cloud stores the working set of data needed by the application while it runs in the cloud.
De-duplication, pre-fetching, asynchronous write-back, and network optimizations further accelerate the migration and reduce
migration bandwidth by up to 75% in production migrations.

11). Resiliency
Each Velostrata deployment incorporates active-active migration clusters that are deployed across two zones. 
Writes are acknowledged in both zones and asynchronously transferred back to on-premises storage to prevent data loss during 
a single zone outage when deployed in a dual zone configuration.


Use Cases:

1. Accelerate your migration journey
Move business application workloads from on-premises and other clouds into Google Cloud quickly and easily,
with built-in support for testing, rollback, automation, and more. Reduce IT labor and keep migrations on time and under budget.

2. Migrate any application landscape
Migrate any application landscape with ease, whether it's a single application, a mix of thousands of applications, 
multi-tier systems like SAP, legacy OSes, and/or physical servers.

3. Unlock the cloud's agile capacity
Move applications that are pegged on-premises into larger, more powerful instances in the cloud with minimal downtime and 
complete data synchronization throughout. Stop spending on costly on-premises hardware, and rely on the cloud's on-demand capacity.

4. Safeguard your migration end-to-end
Test applications directly in the cloud before you migrate. Begin applications in the cloud within minutes, 
while providing minimal downtime that is easy to predict and schedule. Roll back to on-premises anytime if needed.


